So welcome to the javascript section of the complete web developer because here's your final look at
the BBC web site that hopefully you created at the end of the last section to remind that everything
that we've done so far has been focused on layout and design and style.
Other than a VERY little bit of interaction with forms I haven't been able to make our Web sites do
anything.
And that's what javascript is all about.
It allows you to make your web websites Interactive which will make the user experience a lot better
and allow you to create things like games apps and web apps that hopefully your users will love.
It's also our first look at proper coding.
What I mean by that is we can start making software and programs that do something rather than just
look a certain way.
So it's a big move.
A big shift a lot to learn but also really exciting.
I'm going to just show you very quickly how easy it is to get started with a little bit of Javascript
and we'll do this in the usual way.
So I'm going to say goodbye to my BBC or Tim Page and I'm going to create a new folder Criminal Code
3 javascript
and then
I'll just call it javascript hatred him l and that's the main file that will be working with
every game.
So will change the title to javascript's get rid of the style sheet link which won't work now anyway.
And then go back to the start almost painful to delete all that occurred.
But it was good fun guys.
A very quick challenge for you.
Can you make this new page appear in your browser.
You should be a master of that by now.
All right.
How you managed it.
Well we need to do is update the RL to 3 dash javascript and then javascript TNL that we go blank page
but you can see the title up there.
All right.
So I'm going to show you a very simple way to get a little bit of Javascript up and running.
And we're going to use a button.
This is an HVM element that we haven't actually seen yet but it does exactly what you might think.
So it's much like a submit button that we saw in the forms section of the HD M-L chapter but by default
it doesn't do anything you have to give it some code to make it do something.
So let's tempt our user by putting the words click me into the button.
Let's have a look.
There's a button.
So we click it.
And of course nothing happens.
So how do we add javascript.
Well just like with CSSA there's three different ways that we can put javascript into our web sites.
And they're exactly the same three different ways as with CSSA.
So the first that I'm going to show you is the simplest but not the one I'd recommend long term but
it will get us started.
So this is in line javascript's.
And instead of you remember we used style before to get some CSSA we use on click to get some Javascript.
So this just means that we're going to execute this bit of Javascript when the button is clicked.
Simple as that.
And then we put the javascript's that we're going to execute into these quites and a nice simple command
is alert.
And then we have some parentheses or brackets and in single quotes.
I'm going to put high so slightly complicated but you get the idea.
Hopefully this command means alert and then we have some brackets to contain the instructions about
what we want to alert and in single quotes there.
I've put the word high with an exclamation mark so this should alert the word high.
What exactly does that mean.
Let's run it and find out where it is.
So we get a little pop up that says hi with a load of nonsense at the beginning.
But we can ignore that for now.
So feel free to experiment with that a little bit.
You can essentially put any text you like there or numbers or anything else and it will appear when
the button is clicked.
So that's your first teensy bit of Javascript and a little bit of interaction between your user and
your website in the next video will switch from in line to internal javascript which is going to be
a move very similar to the one that we made when we did CSSA in the previous chapter.